---
layout: post
title:  "Gravitational Wave Astrophysics Conference 14/08/2019"
date:   2019-08-14
author: Lijing Shao
categories: activities
---

## Gravitational Wave Astrophysics Conference 2019 [[link](http://3rd-gw-astro.csp.escience.cn/dct/page/1)]

#### 14-17 August, 2019

Detections of gravitational waves (GW) by aLIGO and Virgo have opened a new
era of the gravitational wave astronomy and astrophysics. Those detected GW
events, mergers of ten binary black holes and one double neutron star, have
been reshaping our understanding of the evolution of massive stars,
formation and evolution of black holes and neutron stars. They have also
been used as unprecedented tools to probe the equation of state of nuclear
matter in neutron stars, test general relativity in extremely strong field
regime, and probe cosmology. The detection of the electromagnetic
counterpart of the double neutron star merger (GW170817) has provided
important insights into short gamma ray bursts and kilonovae, and the
physics behind these phenomena, and marked the advent of the
multi-messenger astrophysics. With the upcoming observations of aLIGO and
Virgo, many more binary black hole mergers and double neutron star mergers
(and possibly neutron star--black hole mergers) will be detected, which
will further deepen our understandings on those various aspects.

This conference is the third of the annual conference series on
"Gravitational Wave Astrophysics", supported mainly by the Chinese Academy
of Sciences through the Strategy Priority Program "Multi-wavelength
Gravitational Wave Universe" , NFSC and Key Laboratory for the Structure
and Evolution of Celestial Objects, CAS. The aim of the conference is to
bring interested physicists and astronomers, mostly in China, together to
learn about the status and new results of the global GW detection, to
discuss the new discoveries and developments in gravitational wave and
multi-messenger astrophysics, to stimulate collaborations among physicists
and astronomers, theoreticians and observers, Chinese and oversea
scientists, as well as to provide a forum to discuss future developments of
the GW related researches in China and their integration into the
international community.
